How to use Lottie animations in SwiftUI (#168)
rootstrap/blog: content/How to use Lottie Animations on SwiftUI.md

![Main image](images/lottie-cover.png)

# How to use Lottie Animations in SwiftUI

## Introduction

> if you're here already there's a 99.999% chance you know what Lottie is. For those still confused on what this article is about: Lottie is an awesome iOS, Android, and React Native library created by Airbnb that renders After Effects animations in real time, allowing you to use animations as easily as you use static images. You can find more info on their [website](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) and all the technical documentation you want on the [github](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're here already there's a 99.999% chance you know what Lottie is. For those still confused on what this article is about: Lottie is an awesome iOS, Android, and React Native library created by Airbnb that renders After Effects animations in real time, allowing you to use animations as easily as you use static images. You can find more info on their [website](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) and all the technical documentation you want on their [github](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie) page.
```

> If you're here already, there's a 99.999% chance you know what Lottie is. For those still confused on what this article is about: Lottie is an awesome iOS, Android, and React Native library created by Airbnb that renders After Effects animations in real time, allowing you to use animations as easily as you use static images. You can find more info on their [website](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) and all the technical documentation you want on their [github](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're here already, there's a 99.999% chance you know what Lottie is. For those still confused, Lottie is an awesome iOS, Android, and React Native library created by Airbnb that renders After Effects animations in real-time, allowing you to use animations as easily as you use static images. You can find more info on their [website](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) and all the technical documentation you want on their [github](https://github.com/airbnb/lottie) page.
```

## Overview

In this tutorial, we’ll create a simple SwiftUI view using `UIViewRepresentable` in order to create and load any Lottie animation into your project.

## Lets get started

### Installation

> In order to use Lottie inside your project we need to install the library. For this we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage or the one with will use in this tutorial Swift Package Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use Lottie inside your project, we need to install the library. For this, we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage or the one we will use in this tutorial Swift Package Manager.
```

> In order to use Lottie inside your project we need to install the library. For this we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage or the one we will use in this tutorial Swift Package Manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to use Lottie inside your project, we need to install the library. For this, we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage, or the one we will use in this tutorial, Swift Package Manager.
```

> In order to use Lottie inside your project, we need to install the library. For this we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage, or the one we will use in this tutorial Swift Package Manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to use Lottie inside your project, we need to install the library. For this, we have a few different options like Cocapods, Carthage, or the one we will use in this tutorial Swift Package Manager.
```

> First of all, on Xcode click on `File` and then select the `Add Package Dependency...` option in Swift Packages. In the input box, enter: `https://github.com/airbnb/lottie-ios.git` (this is the library repository from where Xcode will download the code), hit next and leave the major version that is selected by default to use the latest Lottie release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First of all, on Xcode click on `File` and then select the `Add Package Dependency...` option in Swift Packages. In the input box, enter: `https://github.com/airbnb/lottie-ios.git` (this is the library repository from where Xcode will download the code), hit next, and leave the major version that is selected by default to use the latest Lottie release.
```

> First of all, on Xcode click on `File` and then select the `Add Package Dependency...` option in Swift Packages. In the input box, enter: `https://github.com/airbnb/lottie-ios.git` (this is the library repository from where Xcode will download the code) and then just hit next and leave the major version thats selected by default to use the more recent release for Lottie.

Reviewer 4: `thats` -> `that is`

### Hosting Lottie on SwiftUI 

> Now that you have Lottie already installed on your project we can start creating the view. For this you'll need to create a new swift file. Call it `LottieView`, on top add `import SiwftUI` statement and then the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you have Lottie already installed in your project, we can start creating the view. For this, you'll need to create a new Swift file. Call it `LottieView`, add the `import SwiftUI` statement on top and then the following:
```

> Now that you have Lottie already installed in your project we can start creating the view. For this you'll need to create a new Swift file. Call it `LottieView`, add the `import SwiftUI` statement on top and then the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you have Lottie already installed in your project, we can start creating the view. For this, you'll need to create a new Swift file. Call it `LottieView`, add the `import SwiftUI` statement on top and then the following:
```

> Now that you have Lottie already installed on your project we can start creating the view. For this you'll need to create a new SwiftUI file. Call it `LottieView` and delete everything except the import statement and add the following:

Reviewer 5: maybe just create a Swift file and import SwiftUI?

Author: When you create a new SwiftUI view the Text("Hello world") and preview are already there. You need to delete that. I can remove that part but I feel like is the exact step you need to do in order to continue with the tutorial 🤔

Reviewer 5: it feels like an unnecessary extra step since you're removing everything beside de import anyways

> Now that you have Lottie already installed on your project we can start creating the view. For this you'll need to create a new SwiftUI file. Call it `LottieView` and delete everything except the import statement and add the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now that you have Lottie already installed in your project, we can start creating the view. For this, you'll need to create a new SwiftUI file. Call it `LottieView` and delete everything except the import statement and add the following:
```

https://gist.github.com/pMalvasio/93a02c5fb8d2f35509d78df8571915cd

So far we're using a `UIViewRepresentable` to allocate an empty `UIView` with frame `.zero`.

### Loading the Animation

> Next, you'll need to import Lottie on your code, so you have add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. In the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie, to load the animation and add it to the view we already created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, you need to import Lottie on your code, so you have to add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. In the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie to load the animation and add it to the view we already created.
```

> Next, you'll need to import Lottie on your code, so yo can add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. On the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie, load an animation and add it to the view we already created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, you need to import Lottie on your code, so you have to add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. On the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie to load the animation and add it to the view we already created.
```

> Next, you'll need to import Lottie on your code, so yo can add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. On the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie and load an animation and add it to the view we already created.

Reviewer 5: maybe use commas instead of `and`?

> Next, you'll need to import Lottie on your code, so yo can add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. On the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie and load an animation and add it to the view we already created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, you'll need to import Lottie on your code, so you have to add `import Lottie` below the SwiftUI import that's already there. In the `makeUIView(...)` method you can now call Lottie to load the animation and add it to the view we created.
```

https://gist.github.com/pMalvasio/82ec0abbdcf9b1776a533e673e8f6533

### Adding the constraints

> To ensure that it takes the full height and width of the container, we'll specify constraints. To do so, add the following to before returning the view:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that it takes the full height and width of the container, we'll specify constraints. To do so, add the following before returning the view:
```
I'm not sure but that `to` bothers me xD

> https://gist.github.com/pMalvasio/06844e05841cc42cc26797e9e6d38ff1

Reviewer 5: don't you need centering constraints as well?

Author: Nope, the Lottie animation will be centered on the hosted view. and you can center or change size from your SwiftUI view where you're using this new component

Reviewer 5: hmmm not sure if i'm following, with UIKit autolayout won't know how to place the view without origin constraints. If no constraints warning are thrown in the console I guess its ok.

Reviewer 3: Don't you have to set the same origin or center for the view?  I'd do it just in case. It might be working because it may be taking 0,0 as the default origin, but I don't know if that will work every time.

Reviewer 5: it seems theres some SwiftUI magic involved, otherwise autolayout would be complaining

### Almost there

> The last part will be allow the `LottieView` to load any animation you import into your project. To do it we can add a new var and pass it at the moment of calling the animation inside the `makeUIView(...)` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last part will be to allow the `LottieView` to load any animation you import into your project. To do it we can add a new var and pass it at the moment of calling the animation inside the `makeUIView(...)` method:
```

Reviewer: I know, the to I made you delete in the last comment add it here, just to restore balance 😂

Author: Balanced, as all things should be :thanos-snap:

> Add `var filename: String` bellow the typealias line and use it to call the animation replacing the curren call for: `let animation = Animation.named(filename)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add `var filename: String` bellow the `typealias` line and use it to call the animation replacing the current call for: `let animation = Animation.named(filename)`
```

> Add `var filename: String` bellow the `typealias` line and use it to call the animation replacing the current call for: `let animation = Animation.named(filename)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add `var filename: String` below the `typealias` line and use it to call the animation replacing the current call for: `let animation = Animation.named(filename)`
```

### Ready to go

> Done. You successfuly created a `LottieView` with SwiftUI that can call any animation you want into your project and start plying it. Now you only need to call `LottieView(filename: YOUR_ANIMATION)` and you will see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Done. You successfully created a `LottieView` with SwiftUI that can call any animation you want into your project and start playing it. Now you only need to call `LottieView(filename: YOUR_ANIMATION)` and you will see it.
```

> Done. You successfully created a `LottieView` with SwiftUI that can call any animation you want into your project and start playing it. Now you only need to call `LottieView(filename: YOUR_ANIMATION)` and you will see it.

Reviewer 4: You successfully created a `LottieView` with SwiftUI that can **load** any animation... ?

> The final result is the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the final result:
```
?

https://gist.github.com/pMalvasio/73184eb5142139cad9a92a7752fb2752

## Tons of animations

> Usually this animations are privided by a designer, but if you wanna dive into tons of animations that are already there for you to use and most of them are free, you can visit [LottieFiles](https://lottiefiles.com), create an account and start using pretty cool animations. And, if you feel like this a nice oportunity to contribute with that huge comunity of designers, you can also buy some animations to support them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, these animations are provided by a designer, but if you wanna dive into tons of animations that are already there for you to use and most of them are free, you can visit [LottieFiles](https://lottiefiles.com), create an account and start using pretty cool animations. And, if you feel like this a nice opportunity to contribute with that huge community of designers, you can also buy some animations to support them.
```

> Usually, these animations are provided by a designer, but if you wanna dive into tons of animations that are already there for you to use and most of them are free, you can visit [LottieFiles](https://lottiefiles.com), create an account and start using pretty cool animations. And, if you feel like this a nice opportunity to contribute with that huge community of designers, you can also buy some animations to support them.

Reviewer 4: Maybe you can split the first sentence. I would remove the And connector as well. In the other hand, I am not sure that this is grammatically correct: _if you feel like this a nice opportunity to contribute_
